README.md, before:

# SymbolGenerator
A tool to automatically generate a module-exports definition file (`.def` file) 
from one or more compiled C++ translation units (`.obj` files) based on user provided filters.  
This removes the need to mark all exported symbols in a project with `__declspec(dllexport)`, 
while simultaneously avoiding issues that CMake's `WINDOWS_EXPORT_ALL_SYMBOLS` property causes,
like hitting the 64K symbol limit from unnecessarily exported symbols.

### Building
- This is a Windows-only library. Linux platforms do not have the same issues, since symbols are exported by default
and there is no 64K symbol limit. This library will not build on non-Windows platforms and assumes symbols are mangled according to the MSVC ABI.
- [Conan](https://conan.io/) (and therefore [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)) is required to install the project's dependencies (`pip install conan`).
- [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/) is required, together with some generator to build the project with (e.g. [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org/)).

To build the project (with Ninja):
```shell
mkdir out
cd out
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=[DEBUG|RELEASE] -G Ninja -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=[MSVC|clang-cl] -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=[MSVC|clang-cl] ../
cmake --build ./[debug|release] --target all
```

### Usage
The program takes as its input a set of `.obj` files and some regex filters, and produces a `.def` file containing all symbols that are matched by said filters.  
The command line arguments are as follows (the program does not differentiate between `-arg` and `--arg`):
- `-lib`:     the name of the DLL that will be created using the generated `.def` file.
- `-i`:       the directory containing the `.obj` to process. The provided path is searched recursively.
- `-o`:       the path of the output `.def` file.
- `-fn`:      the path to a DLL. If provided, the program will attempt to invoke a filter function in the DLL when processing symbols (see below).
- `-y`:       a list of regexes for namespaces to include. Includes all symbols in the given namespace and all subnamespaces.
Namespace should be a top-level namespace, or its parent should already be included by another `-y` parameter.
- `-n`:       a list of regexes for namespaces to exclude. Excludes all symbols in the given namespace and all subnamespaces.
Namespace need not be a top-level namespace.
- `-yo`:      a list of regexes of force-included symbols. These symbols are always included, even if they are in an excluded namespace.
- `-no`:      a list of regexes of force-excluded symbols. These symbols are always excluded, even if they are in an included namespace.
- `-cache`:   if provided, the results of the program will be cached so that it can run faster the next time it is invoked with the same arguments.
Caching occurs on a per-obj-file basis.
- `-verbose`: if provided, logs additional information, like the number of symbols per TU and whether or not cached symbols were used.
- `-j`:       if provided, the number of threads used to process objects. Defaults to number of threads of the current device.
- `-ordinal`: if provided, symbols are exported by ordinal instead of by name. Use this option to reduce the size of the DLL.

The `-lib`, `-i` and `-o` parameters are required. All other parameters are optional (Although you should provide at least one to match anything).  
Note that "namespace" for the purpose of this parser refers to any scope object. E.g. for nested classes, the parent class will show as part of the namespace.

When the `-fn` option is used, the program will attempt to load the function with the following signature from the provided DLL:
```c++
extern "C" __declspec(dllexport) int keep_symbol(const char* sym, const void* symbol, const void* reader);
```
Provided are the demangled name of the symbol (as per `UnDecorateSymbolName`), and pointers to the associated `COFFI::symbol` and `COFFI::reader`.  
The function should return zero to discard the symbol, and non-zero otherwise.  
If the `-fn` option is combined with other filters, this function is only invoked with symbols that have already passed all other filters.


Example:
```shell
SymbolGenerator.exe -cache -lib VoxelEngine -i ../out/debug/CMakeFiles/VoxelEngine.dir -o ./VoxelEngine.def -y ve -n .*detail.* .*impl.* meta -yo .*vertex_layout.*
```
This command creates `./VoxelEngine.def` which can be used to create `VoxelEngine.dll`, by taking symbols from all `.obj` files in the `VoxelEngine.dir` directory.
All symbols in the `ve` namespace and nested namespaces therein are included, except nested namespaces containing the text `detail` or `impl` or named `meta`.
Symbols containing the text `vertex_layout` are always included, even if they are in such an excluded namespace.

### Usage with CMake
To use SymbolGenerator.exe with CMake, you can simply add it as a custom command:
```cmake
function(create_symbol_filter target argument_file)
    # Alternatively you can just ship the SymbolGenerator binary with your repo directly if you don't want to have it downloaded separately.
    set(symgen_url  "https://github.com/ClawmanCat/SymbolGenerator/releases/latest/download/SymbolGenerator.exe")
    set(symgen_path "${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/tools/SymbolGenerator.exe")

    if (NOT EXISTS "${symgen_path}")
        message(STATUS "Failed to find SymbolGenerator.exe. Downloading latest release...")
        file(DOWNLOAD "${symgen_url}" "${symgen_path}")
    endif()

    file(READ ${argument_file} args)
    string(REPLACE " " ";" args ${args})

    add_custom_command(
        TARGET ${target}
        PRE_LINK
        COMMAND SymbolGenerator
        ARGS
            ${args}
            -i "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/${target}/CMakeFiles/${target}.dir"
            -o "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/${target}.def"
            --lib ${target}
            --cache
        VERBATIM
        WORKING_DIRECTORY "${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/tools"
    )

    # Since this is Windows-only, we can assume a MSVC-like command line (MSVC or Clang-CL).
    target_link_options(${target} PRIVATE "/DEF:${target}.def")
endfunction()
```

Commit message:

Don't force exclude null-type symbols & add trace option

README.md, after:

# SymbolGenerator
A tool to automatically generate a module-exports definition file (`.def` file) 
from one or more compiled C++ translation units (`.obj` files) based on user provided filters.  
This removes the need to mark all exported symbols in a project with `__declspec(dllexport)`, 
while simultaneously avoiding issues that CMake's `WINDOWS_EXPORT_ALL_SYMBOLS` property causes,
like hitting the 64K symbol limit from unnecessarily exported symbols.

### Building
- This is a Windows-only library. Linux platforms do not have the same issues, since symbols are exported by default
and there is no 64K symbol limit. This library will not build on non-Windows platforms and assumes symbols are mangled according to the MSVC ABI.
- [Conan](https://conan.io/) (and therefore [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)) is required to install the project's dependencies (`pip install conan`).
- [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/) is required, together with some generator to build the project with (e.g. [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org/)).

To build the project (with Ninja):
```shell
mkdir out
cd out
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=[DEBUG|RELEASE] -G Ninja -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=[MSVC|clang-cl] -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=[MSVC|clang-cl] ../
cmake --build ./[debug|release] --target all
```

### Usage
The program takes as its input a set of `.obj` files and some regex filters, and produces a `.def` file containing all symbols that are matched by said filters.  
The command line arguments are as follows (the program does not differentiate between `-arg` and `--arg`):
- `-lib`:       the name of the DLL that will be created using the generated `.def` file.
- `-i`:         the directory containing the `.obj` to process. The provided path is searched recursively.
- `-o`:         the path of the output `.def` file.
- `-fn`:        the path to a DLL. If provided, the program will attempt to invoke a filter function in the DLL when processing symbols (see below).
- `-y`:         a list of regexes for namespaces to include. Includes all symbols in the given namespace and all subnamespaces.
Namespace should be a top-level namespace, or its parent should already be included by another `-y` parameter.
- `-n`:         a list of regexes for namespaces to exclude. Excludes all symbols in the given namespace and all subnamespaces.
Namespace need not be a top-level namespace.
- `-yo`:        a list of regexes of force-included symbols (matched against the full symbol name, including the namespace). These symbols are always included, even if they are in an excluded namespace.
- `-no`:        a list of regexes of force-excluded symbols (matched against the full symbol name, including the namespace). These symbols are always excluded, even if they are in an included namespace.
- `-cache`:     if provided, the results of the program will be cached so that it can run faster the next time it is invoked with the same arguments.
Caching occurs on a per-obj-file basis.
- `-verbose`:   if provided, logs additional information, like the number of symbols per TU and whether or not cached symbols were used.
- `-trace`:     if provided, logs even more information, like the reason for each symbol's inclusion or exclusion.
- `-j`:         if provided, the number of threads used to process objects. Defaults to number of threads of the current device.
- `-ordinal`:   if provided, symbols are exported by ordinal instead of by name. Use this option to reduce the size of the DLL.

The `-lib`, `-i` and `-o` parameters are required. All other parameters are optional (Although you should provide at least one to match anything).  
Note that "namespace" for the purpose of this parser refers to any scope object. E.g. for nested classes, the parent class will show as part of the namespace.

When the `-fn` option is used, the program will attempt to load the function with the following signature from the provided DLL:
```c++
extern "C" __declspec(dllexport) int keep_symbol(const char* sym, const void* symbol, const void* reader);
```
Provided are the demangled name of the symbol (as per `UnDecorateSymbolName`), and pointers to the associated `COFFI::symbol` and `COFFI::reader`.  
The function should return zero to discard the symbol, and non-zero otherwise.  
If the `-fn` option is combined with other filters, this function is only invoked with symbols that have already passed all other filters.


Example:
```shell
SymbolGenerator.exe -cache -lib VoxelEngine -i ../out/debug/CMakeFiles/VoxelEngine.dir -o ./VoxelEngine.def -y ve -n .*detail.* .*impl.* meta -yo .*vertex_layout.*
```
This command creates `./VoxelEngine.def` which can be used to create `VoxelEngine.dll`, by taking symbols from all `.obj` files in the `VoxelEngine.dir` directory.
All symbols in the `ve` namespace and nested namespaces therein are included, except nested namespaces containing the text `detail` or `impl` or named `meta`.
Symbols containing the text `vertex_layout` are always included, even if they are in such an excluded namespace.

### Usage with CMake
To use SymbolGenerator.exe with CMake, you can simply add it as a custom command:
```cmake
function(create_symbol_filter target argument_file)
    # Alternatively you can just ship the SymbolGenerator binary with your repo directly if you don't want to have it downloaded separately.
    set(symgen_url  "https://github.com/ClawmanCat/SymbolGenerator/releases/latest/download/SymbolGenerator.exe")
    set(symgen_path "${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/tools/SymbolGenerator.exe")

    if (NOT EXISTS "${symgen_path}")
        message(STATUS "Failed to find SymbolGenerator.exe. Downloading latest release...")
        file(DOWNLOAD "${symgen_url}" "${symgen_path}")
    endif()

    file(READ ${argument_file} args)
    string(REPLACE " " ";" args ${args})

    add_custom_command(
        TARGET ${target}
        PRE_LINK
        COMMAND SymbolGenerator
        ARGS
            ${args}
            -i "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/${target}/CMakeFiles/${target}.dir"
            -o "${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/${target}.def"
            --lib ${target}
            --cache
        VERBATIM
        WORKING_DIRECTORY "${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/tools"
    )

    # Since this is Windows-only, we can assume a MSVC-like command line (MSVC or Clang-CL).
    target_link_options(${target} PRIVATE "/DEF:${target}.def")
endfunction()
```

### Limitations
As with CMake's `WINDOWS_EXPORT_ALL_SYMBOLS` option, global data symbols must still be marked with `__declspec(dllimport)` when importing.  
The easiest solution right now is to just export a getter method instead, but an option to automatically edit the existing `.obj` files to mark exported data symbols as such is being looked into.  
  
Since objects in the global namespace have no namespace to match against the provided filters, they are always excluded by default, even if an option like `-y .*` is used. Such symbols must be included manually with `-yo`, or moved into a namespace.  
Note that the global namespace also contains special symbols like the `.text`, `.data` and `.debug` sections which should never be exported directly, so exporting the entire global namespace is not an option.
